## Why Everyone Should do an Independent Study in High School

It's obvious that I really like independent studies, and while I have only done one, I think that they are a great opportunity for everyone to participate in.

While I have read about self directed classes done in experimental high schools that also use a lot of technology, at first I thought it sounded silly because I only experienced structured learning at school where a teacher teaches the class and gives out homework. I also thought that the topic of learning was so broad, how would kids learn effectively if they didn't know what to do? 

I think one of the reasons that independent studies are not common is that people think that it's hard to learn without a set curriculum. I speculate this is due to the reliance of schools on the curriculum. Don't get me wrong, I think they're a good outline, but some are too restrictive, and they are not flexible enough for teachers. AP and IB also falls into this trap. 

AP is known for challenging students, and to give students that want to learn more the chance to go beyond the standards. However, the AP program has its flaws. One of the flaws is that teachers often are forced to stick to the curriculum closely. This is a major loss because sometimes the most interesting parts of a subject are not on the syllabus. I still remember the day our Physics Teacher took to discuss special relativity. Even though this topic does not show up in any AP Physics test, it was interesting. While 50 minutes is not enough to cover the entirety of special relativity, the subject shows how much there is beyond the classroom. However, there was a rush to prepare for the test, which probably decreased the effectiveness of instruction. Additionally, CollegeBoard holds the power to change the curriculum to its whims without regard to actual learning, but on how they should get more people to take AP tests. Speculation is bad, but one of the theories on why the CollegeBoard reduced the AP World History curriculum by half was to make the test easier and more accessible. The history that students learn shouldn't be based on the whims of a huge corporation, who chooses to center history on whiteness, which is nothing new. Even though AP is not perfect, it's hard to stop the CollegeBoard from doing what it wants. Additionally, there are criticisms that the AP tests are much easier than what taking the college class is like, which may lead to further problems in higher lever classes. 

The question of whether these credits are a good idea is a thorny question, which will not be addressed here. 

If AP sucks, does IB suck less? No, I think it falls to the same traps. Having two years to cover more information is a good idea. Wait a minute, you may ask, why would taking a two year class be a better emulation of college classes than shoving a ton of information in one year? I think that taking two years to learn, to absorb, and to understand info is a good idea for some people and might lead to less memory degradation of the information. Although some people that I know are very good at self studying and feel that two years is too long and they need to know more information. That is one of the limitations of IB is that you do not get to take a lot of other classes whether through dual enrollment or just more AP classes to get more credits out of the way. I prize this more in-depth approach, however, I feel like with IB Physics, the IBO tried to squeeze too much information and the test felt very haphazardly made with almost equal weighting to topics even though some topics are more important that others and throwing in the most random information. While the curriculum was fine, the test was hard, which is unfair to the students trying to take the test to show that they are competent in the subject to receive college credit. 

Either way, AP and IB are not that flexible and while they do achieve the goal of getting college credit and showing off to colleges that you challenged yourself, they still have many flaws. Additionally, students might be more focused on the grades they are getting from a challenging course and being stressed while not as focused on the learning. I often see students complaining about AP courses being hard not because of the content but because it's a lot of busywork or it's hard to get an A, while rarely do people focus on how much they're getting out of the courses. 

An independent study allows people to find a niche that they want to explore deeper and to give them the flexibility to focus on learning what they can and not on grades.

I don't know how much I learned from my independent study. I think in terms of raw knowledge, I didn't really learn that much physics, it was mostly a review of previous years, while I did dip my toes a bit deeper in coding. Some of the things I did learn surprised me, such as learning about Object Oriented Programming, as I thought objects were pretty abstract and useless, but as I applied objects into a simulation, I learned how useful they were and how to use them effectively. This unexpected sidetracking is what makes an independent study so beautiful. 